# ESLint Configuration - Trouble Areas

This document summarizes current challenges in managing our ESLint configuration and serves as a quick reference when there are upgrades to eslint-related libraries.

---

## Table of Contents

1. [SonarJS](#sonarjs)
2. [Custom Settings](#custom-settings-todos)

## SonarJS

We'll want to be on the latest version of everything after Next15 is stable.

### Issue: Version Compatibility

The [SonarJs documentation](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarJS/blob/master/packages/jsts/src/rules/README.md) describes steps, none of which work with eslint-config-next, even if swapping out `npm run lint` to `eslint` instead of `next lint`.

We should always align `eslint-config-next` with our version of Next.js:

- `eslint-config-next`: `"^14.2.18"` (matching version)
- `next`: `"^14.2.18"` (matching version)

### Problem

`'next/core-web-vitals'` (an eslint plugin and set in `.eslintrc`) requires ESLint 8 (for next v14), but various SonarJS configurations break under this setup.

### Findings

1. **SonarJS Config**:

   - **Recommended:** `plugin:sonarjs/recommended-legacy` (from SonarJS documentation) only works in some configurations.

2. **Challenges with Configurations**:
   - **Fails**:
     - ESLint 8 + Next.js 14 + `eslint-config-next` v14 + `eslint-plugin-sonarjs` (`^0.x / ^2.0.4)
     - ESLint 9 + Next.js 14 + `eslint-config-next` v14 + `eslint-plugin-sonarjs` (^0.x / ^1.0.4 / ^2.0.4 all fail, though sonarjs 2.0 should work; changing `npm run lint` from using `next lint` to using `eslint` also fails; need to eliminate the recommended `eslint-config-next` version to fix i believe)
   - **Works**:
     - ESLint 8 + Next.js 14 + `eslint-config-next` v14 + `eslint-plugin-sonarjs`: `"^1.0.4"`.
       - requires `plugin:sonarjs/recommended-legacy` in eslintrc.
       - works under both `eslint .` and `next lint` in package.json script.
       - enables critical rules like `sonarjs/no-incomplete-assertions` which isn't present in all sonarjs versions.

## Custom Settings TODOs

- I'd like to turn the `any` rule into an error after all unnecessary files are deleted. Now that devs are seeing the warnings in their IDEs, we've been getting fewer `anys` introduced.

- Need a rule for `require '/@' when '../src/' exists in test mock paths`

- I like allowing TS to infer types from functions or functional components. But we should add types to function parameters to eliminate future issues. I think that would look something like this:

```
"@typescript-eslint/explicit-module-boundary-types": ["warn", {
  "allowArgumentsExplicitlyTypedAsAny": true,
  "allowDirectConstAssertionInArrowFunctions": true
}],
"@typescript-eslint/typedef": [
  "warn",
  {
    "parameter": true,
    "arrowParameter": true,
    "propertyDeclaration": false,
    "variableDeclaration": false,
    "memberVariableDeclaration": false
  }
]
```

- REMEMBER that these overrides are in the eslintrc file and do need to be removed or turned into warnings. They do not fail on SonarQube, so the setting on the server must have a very high threshold vs our sonarjs defaults.

```
overrides: [
  { files: [ '.../[groupId]/components/Group/Group.tsx', ...oneMoreFile],
    rules: {
      'sonarjs/cognitive-complexity': 'off'
    }
  }
]
```
